Updating as per PREX-2204 (#893)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/recommendations/containers/product-list.mdx

  ]}
/>

<Aside type="caution" title="Deprecated prop">

The `currentSku` prop is deprecated as of v4.0.3 and will be removed in a future release. Use `currentProduct` instead.

</Aside>

## Product context

Pass product context with the optional `currentProduct` prop:

```ts
currentProduct?: { sku: string; price?: number };
```

How context is supplied depends on where the unit is rendered:

- **PDP pages**: The Commerce boilerplate block reads `currentProduct` from the Adobe Client Data Layer (ACDL) product context. You do not need to pass `currentProduct` in block configuration.
- **Non-PDP pages**: Set `currentsku` and/or `currentprice` in the [product-recommendations block configuration](/merchants/content-customizations/product-recommendations/#configuration) table to provide product context explicitly.
- **Context-free units**: If neither `currentsku` nor ACDL product context is available, `currentProduct` is `undefined`. The dropin still renders as long as `recId` is provided.

## Query routing

The container selects a GraphQL query based on the `currentProduct` shape:

> - When `currentProduct.price` is present (**Adobe Commerce Optimizer and Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service only**): uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIdsWithCurrentProduct`, which supports dynamic price filter operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When `currentProduct.price` is present (**Adobe Commerce Optimizer and Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service only**), the container uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIdsWithCurrentProduct`, which supports dynamic price filter operators.
```

> - When only `currentProduct.sku` is present, or `currentProduct` is absent: uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIds`, which is compatible with all backend types including PaaS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When only `currentProduct.sku` is present, or `currentProduct` is absent, the container uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIds`, which is compatible with all backend types, including PaaS.
```

- **Context-free unit types**: Omit `currentProduct`. The dropin renders with `recId` alone on any page type.

<Aside type="caution" title="Do not omit seed SKU on anchor-based units">

On non-PDP pages, anchor-based unit types return no products when the seed SKU is missing—even if the unit uses a static price filter. Only **context-free** unit types can run with `recId` alone.

</Aside>

## Query routing

The container selects a GraphQL query based on whether anchor price is present:

- When `currentProduct.price` is present (**Adobe Commerce Optimizer and Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service only**), the container uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIdsWithCurrentProduct`, which supports dynamic and relative price filter operators.
- When only `currentProduct.sku` is present, or `currentProduct` is absent, the container uses `GetRecommendationsByUnitIds`, which is compatible with all backend types, including PaaS.

> The dropin sends `currentProduct.price` only when a dynamic or relative price operator is active. Static price filters use the seed SKU only.

Reviewer 2: The dropin doesn't inspect the unit's filter operator — it has no knowledge of the server-side unit config. It selects the extended query purely on whether `currentProduct.price` is present (`getRecommendationsByUnitIds.ts`: `hasCurrentProduct = currentProduct?.price != null`), and on ACO/ACCS PDPs the boilerplate block sends the ACDL price whenever it's available (`product-recommendations.js`, gated on `isACO`, not on operator). The backend only *consumes* the anchor when the filter is dynamic/relative; for static/non-price filters it's ignored. Suggest rewording so we don't imply operator-aware logic on the client:

```suggestion
On ACO and ACCS, the dropin sends `currentProduct.price` whenever it is available from the product context — it does not inspect the unit's configured filter operator. The extended query is selected whenever price is present; the backend applies the anchor only when the unit's filter uses a dynamic or relative operator, and ignores it for static or non-price filters.
```

> On ACO and ACCS, the dropin sends `currentProduct.price` whenever it is available from the product context — it does not inspect the unit's configured filter operator. The extended query is selected whenever price is present; the backend applies the anchor only when the unit's filter uses a dynamic or relative operator, and ignores it for static or non-price filters.

Author: ```suggestion
On Adobe Commerce Optimizer and Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service, the dropin sends `currentProduct.price` whenever it is available from the product context — it does not inspect the unit's configured filter operator. The extended query is selected whenever price is present; the backend applies the anchor only when the unit's filter uses a dynamic or relative operator, and ignores it for static or non-price filters.
```
